# Interacting with contracts ABI

## Introduction
- In this lesson, the `StorageFactory` contract will be upgraded to keep track of all deployed SimpleStorage contracts. This will allow us also to interact with each deployed contract individually.

## Storing the deployed contracts
- In the current `StorageFactory` version, every time `createSimpleStorageContract` is called, a new `SimpleStorage` contract is deployed and overridden inside the variable `SimpleStorage`. Past deployments are not being tracked down.
- To solve this issue we can create a variable `listOfSimpleStorageContracts`, which is an array of `SimpleStorage contracts`. In this way, whenever a contract is created, it gets added to a dynamic array.

```
SimpleStorage[] public listOfSimpleStorageContracts;
```

- We can then modify the `function createSimpleStorageContract`, pushing the newly deployed contract to this variable.

```
function createSimpleStorageContract() public {
    SimpleStorage simpleStorageContractVariable = new SimpleStorage();
    listOfSimpleStorageContracts.push(simpleStorageContractVariable);
}
```

- In Remix, you can access `listOfSimpleStorageContracts` via the index of type uint256, which refers to the position of the deployed contract inside the dynamic array.

## Simple Storage interaction
- StorageFactory can interact with the deployed contracts by calling their store function. To do this we need to create a function `sfStore`:

```
function sfStore(uint256 _simpleStorageIndex, uint256 _simpleStorageNumber) public {
    //SimpleStorage store function will be called here
}
```

- ðŸ‘€â—IMPORTANT
- Every time you have to interact with another contract, you need: 

>> 1. the contract address 
>> 2. the contract `ABI (Application Binary Interface)`: a standardized way for interacting with the binary version of a smart contract deployed on the blockchain. It specifies the functions, their parameters, and the structure of the data that can be used to interact with the contract. It's generated by the compiler.

