# Blockchain Overview

## Traditional Networks vs Blockchain
- Traditionally, when you run an application be it a website or something that connects to a server you are interacting with a centralized entity. This is the opposite of what you may recall from our distributed blockchain example, in that the server is controlled and run by a single centralized group.
- Blockchains, as we saw, run on a network of independent nodes. In our previous example, each of the Peers was representative of an independent node operator. The term node typically refers to a single instance of a decentralized system, Peer A would be a node. This network, this combination of these nodes interacting with each other is what creates a blockchain. What makes these networks so potent, is that anybody can join. All anyone needs is a little bit a hardward and you can participate in securing a blockchain network. You could go to GitHub and start operating a node in a few seconds!
- In the traditional world applications are run by centralized entities and if that entity goes down or is malicious or decides that they want to shut off - they just can. They're the ones that control everything.
- Blockchains, by contrast, don't have this problem. If one node or one entity that runs several nodes goes down, since there are so many other independent nodes running, it doesn't matter, the blockchain and the system will persist so long as there is at least one node always running. Luckily for us, the most popular chains like Bitcoin and ethereum have thousands and thousands of nodes. Malicious nodes are kicked from the network, or even punished in some cases. Majority rules when it comes to the blockchain.
- This gives blockchains this incredibly potent immutability trait where nothing can be changed or corrupted so in essence we can think of a blockchain as a decentralized database. In the case of Ethereum it has an extra additional feature where it also can do computation in a decentralized manner now.

##
